Review of GLUE2.1 part 1/2 (J Jensen, UKRI-STFC-RAL)


General comment: in a few places you make reference to grid
environments, e.g. in the introduction and the beginning of section
6.  However, I am wondering if that is too limiting; it might put
someone off who is not building a grid.  You do mention cloud with the
first occurrence, though.  Maybe it would be useful for distributed
computing more generally.

As another general comment, some of the descriptions of the schema
also touch on how the schema is intended to be used; like in 6.12.1
which says that certain Endpoints SHOULD NOT be selected, or 7.10
which talks about AppNames.  Service (pre-)selection is touched upon
several times.  There's nothing wrong with that, but it makes it
harder to distinguish the normative (Schema) from the non-normative
(usage and implementation cf section 1 3rd para).



Section 1.  Nitpick: renderings are in separate documents? not a
separate document (more than one rendering.) There's some repetition
as the third para talks about rendering to concrete data models as
well.

Section 5. " .. even though this MAY be measured"?  I don't
understand.

What's an "association end"?  It's not clear at this stage.

Section 6.1.  Oops.  Did you mean "The specialized classes will
inherit both the associations and the attributes of the _Entity_
class"?

Section 6.2.  What's a Container class? (not mentioned before)

In 6.3 is the country name free format?  There might be a use case for
a controlled vocabulary country format (e.g. service selection), even
for services spanning countries using ISO3166 (say) - e.g. a service
is in "ES,DE,DK,NL,FR,BE" (with no meaning assigned to the ordering.)
Name of country could be a bit of a mouthful, like "United Kingdom of
Great Britain and Northern Ireland".

In 6.5.1-2, why is the AdminDomain.ID (resp UserDomain.ID) both * and
0..1? - I understand at a handwavy level how domains could participate
in other domains, but not how it is modelled in this way when the
attributes have the same name (and different multiplicities).

6.6. I don't understand the "Complexity" and it's not mentioned
previously.

6.7. "OGSA architecture specification" probably needs a reference or a
footnote.

I seem to remember there is an equivalent of WSDL for REST web
services but I can't remember what it's called.  WSDL is specific to
SOAP?

6.12 in the third para, what defines a set of policies?  It is hard to
parse this paragraph.

7.1 For the last Para I suggest adding a diagram showing the two
situations - again the para requires some patience to parse.  But
unlike the one in 6.12, it does make sense.

7.2 what is a measurable attribute?

If by Quality_Level you mean TRL, there are quite a few definitions.

7.3 I find it slightly unhelpful that some memory units (RAM) are in
MB, and others (disk) are in GB.  I know that disks usually have more
capacity than RAM but given the blurring of the boundary between them
with NVM, fast disk, slow cache, etc., it seems unhelpful.

7.4 what's an "accelerator slot"?  Is it how many jobs can share an
accelerator?  Or how many jobs can share all accelerators?  For
example, on a large GPU system, we would typically have at most one
job per GPU but there will be several GPUs.  The matching system might
look for a resource where its job can get a dedicated GPU.  I guess
my point is similar to your discussion of the working area allocation
in Table 1.

On 7.8, I noted that sometimes an execution environment could have a
non-integer number of CPUs, like if it runs in a container with
restricted CPU.  Not everything in life is HPC...

8.1 "weak aggregation"?

End of 8.1 eek- this is the same as the 7.1 - diagram would be
helpful.




Language nitpicks:

enables to link -> enables linking
easy of reading -> ease of reading

"the value of zero means that it is allowed to refrain from publishing
a value for the related attribute" - it would be more readable to say
"it is allowed to omit the attribute" - and later that sentence, "even
though this MAY be measured" - what does this mean?

For "global unique id" I'd suggest "globally unique id"

6.5.2 inconsistent spelling "A User Domain" and "An User Domain"

6.12 "We RECOMMEND to not represent the association [..] explicitly"
-> "the association [..] SHOULD NOT be represented explicitly" or
"representing the association [..] explicitly is NOT RECOMMENDED"
(using SHOULD NOT would be better)

Section 8. "leverages on" -> "leverages" (if you *must* use that
word.)

Also section 8, "bed in Chapter 7" ????

